Qays ibn al-Mulawwah was just a boy when he fell deeply in love with Layla Al-Aamiriya. He was sure of this love on the very first day he laid eyes upon her at school. He soon began to write beautiful love poems about Layla and he would read them out loud on street corners to anybody who would care to listen. Such passionate displays of love and devotion caused many to refer to the boy as Majnun, meaning madman.

One day, Majnun found the courage to ask Layla’s father for his daughter’s hand in marriage, but her father refused the request. Such a marriage, the father reasoned, would only cause a scandal. It would not be proper for his daughter to marry a person whom everybody called 'madman'. Instead, Layla was promised to another.

Majnun was overcome with grief and abandoned his home and family and disappeared into the wilderness. He lived a miserable life of solitude among the wild animals, spending his days composing poems to his beloved Layla. Layla was forced to marry another man and, although she did not love him because her heart still belonged to Majnun, she remained a faithful wife.

The news of this marriage was devastating to Majnun who continued to live a life of solitude, refusing to return home to his mother and father in the city.

Majnun’s mother and father missed their son terribly and longed every day for his safe return home. They would leave food for him at the bottom of the garden in the hopes that one day he would come back to them out of the desert. But Majnun remained in the wilderness, writing his poetry in solitude, never speaking to a single soul.

Majnun spent all of his time alone, surrounded only by the animals of the wilderness that gathered around him and protected him during the long desert nights. He was often seen by travellers who would pass him on their way towards the city. The travellers said that Majnun spent his days reciting poetry to himself and writing in the sand with a long stick; they said that he truly was driven to madness with a broken heart.